README.md, before:

# vCloud Edge Gateway

vCloud Edge Gateway is a CLI tool and Ruby library that supports automated
provisiong of a VMware vCloud Director Edge Gateway appliance. It depends on
[vCloud Core](https://rubygems.org/gems/vcloud-core) and uses
[Fog](http://fog.io) under the hood.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

    gem 'vcloud-edge_gateway'

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install vcloud-edge_gateway

## Usage

To configure an Edge Gateway:

    $ vcloud-configure-edge input.yaml

### Credentials

vCloud Edge Gateway is based around [fog]. To use it you'll need to give it
credentials that allow it to talk to a VMware
environment. Fog offers two ways to do this.

#### 1. Create a `.fog` file containing your credentials

To use this method, you need a `.fog` file in your home directory.

For example:

    test:
      vcloud_director_username: 'username@org_name'
      vcloud_director_password: 'password'
      vcloud_director_host: 'host.api.example.com'

Unfortunately current usage of fog requires the password in this file. Multiple
sets of credentials can be specified in the fog file, using the following
format:

    test:
      vcloud_director_username: 'username@org_name'
      vcloud_director_password: 'password'
      vcloud_director_host: 'host.api.example.com'

    test2:
      vcloud_director_username: 'username@org_name'
      vcloud_director_password: 'password'
      vcloud_director_host: 'host.api.vendor.net'

You can then pass the `FOG_CREDENTIAL` environment variable at the start of your
command. The value of the `FOG_CREDENTIAL` environment variable is the name of
the credential set in your fog file which you wish to use.  For instance:

    $ FOG_CREDENTIAL=test2 vcloud-configure-edge input.yaml

To understand more about `.fog` files, visit the 'Credentials' section here
=> http://fog.io/about/getting_started.html.

#### 2. Log on externally and supply your session token

You can choose to log on externally by interacting independently with the API
and supplying your session token to the tool by setting the `FOG_VCLOUD_TOKEN`
ENV variable. This option reduces the risk footprint by allowing the user to
store their credentials in safe storage. The default token lifetime is '30
minutes idle' - any activity extends the life by another 30 mins.

A basic example of this would be the following:

    curl
       -D-
       -d ''
       -H 'Accept: application/*+xml;version=5.1' -u '<user>@<org>'
       https://host.com/api/sessions

This will prompt for your password.

From the headers returned, select the header below

     x-vcloud-authorization: AAAABBBBBCCCCCCDDDDDDEEEEEEFFFFF=

Use token as ENV var FOG_VCLOUD_TOKEN

    $ FOG_VCLOUD_TOKEN=AAAABBBBBCCCCCCDDDDDDEEEEEEFFFFF= vcloud-configure-edge input.yaml

### Configure edge gateway services

You can configure the following services on an existing edgegateway using
`vcloud-configure-edge`.

- firewall_service
- nat_service
- load_balancer_service

NB: DHCP and VPN Services are not yet supported by the Fog platform underneath.
Support for these is being considered.

The `vcloud-configure-edge` tool takes an input YAML file describing one
or more of these services and updates the edge gateway configuration to match,
obeying the following rules:

* A given service will not be reconfigured if its input configuration matches
  the live configuration - to prevent unneccessary service reloads.
* If a service is not defined in the input config, it will not be updated on
  the remote edge gateway - to permit per-service configurations.
* If more than one service is defined and have changed, then all changed
  services will be updated in the same API request.

#### firewall_service

The edge gateway firewall service offers basic inbound and outbound
IPv4 firewall rules, applied on top of a default policy.

We default to the global firewall policy being 'drop', and each individual
rule to be 'allow'. Rules are applied in order, with the last match winning.

Each rule has the following form:

```
 - description: "Description of your rule"
   destination_port_range: "53"  # defaults to 'Any'
   destination_ip: "192.0.2.15"
   source_ip: "Any"
   source_port_range: "1024-65535"  # defaults to 'Any'
   protocol: 'udp' # defaults to 'tcp'
   policy: 'allow'  # defaults to 'drop'
```

Rule fields have the following behaviour

* `policy` defaults to 'allow', can also be 'drop'.
* `protocol` defaults to 'tcp'. Can be 'icmp', 'udp', 'tcp+udp' or 'any'
* `source_port_range` and `destination_port_range` can be `Any` (default),
  a single port number (eg '443'), or a port range such as '10000-20000'
* `source_ip` and `destination_ip` *must* be specified.
* `source_ip` and `destination_ip` can be one of:
  * `Any` to match any address.
  * `external`, or `internal` to refer to addresses on the respective 'sides'
   of the edge gateway.
  * A single IP address, such as `192.0.2.44`
  * A CIDR range, eg `192.0.2.0/24`
  * A hyphened range, such as `192.0.2.50-192.0.2.60`



#### nat_service

The edge gateway NAT service offers simple stateful Source-NAT and
Destination-NAT rules.

SNAT rules take a source IP address range and 'Translated IP address'. The
translated address is generally the public address that you wish traffic to
appear to be coming from. SNAT rules are typically used to enable outbound
connectivity from a private address range behind the edge. The UUID of the
external network that the traffic should appear to come from must also be
specified, as per the `network_id` field below.

A SNAT rule has the following form:

```
 - rule_type: 'SNAT'
   network_id: '12345678-1234-1234-1234-1234567890bb' # id of EdgeGateway external network
   original_ip: "10.10.10.0/24"  # internal IP range
   translated_ip: "192.0.2.100
```

* `original_ip` can be a single IP address, a CIDR range, or a hyphenated
  IP range.
* `network_id` must be the UUID of the network on which the `translated_ip` sits.
  Instructions are in the [finding external network
  details](#finding-external-network-details-from-vcloud-walk) section below.
* `translated_ip` must be an available address on the network specified by
   `network_id`


DNAT rules translate packets addressed to a particular destination IP (and
typically port) and translate it to an internal address - they are usually
defined to allow external hosts to connect to services on hosts with private IP
addresses.

A DNAT rule has the following form, and translates packets going to the
`original_ip` (and `original_port`) to the `translated_ip` and
`translated_port` values.

```
- rule_type: 'DNAT'
  network_id: '12345678-1234-1234-1234-1234567890bb' # id of EdgeGateway external network
  original_ip: "192.0.2.98" # Useable address on external network
  original_port: "22"       # external port
  translated_ip: "10.10.10.10"  # internal address to DNAT to
  translated_port: "22"
```

* `network_id` specifies the UUID of the external network that packets are
  translated from.
* `original_ip` is an IP address on the external network above.

#### load_balancer_service

The load balancer service comprises two sets of configurations: 'pools' and
'virtual_servers'. These are coupled together to form load balanced services:

* A virtual_server provides the front-end of a load balancer - the port and
  IP that clients connect to.
* A pool is a collection of one or more back-end nodes (IP+port combination)
  that traffic is balanced across.
* Each virtual_server entry specifies a pool that serves requests destined to
  it.
* Multiple virtual_servers can specify the same pool (to run the same service
  on different FQDNs, for example)
* virtual_servers define any 'session persistence' information, if sessions
  are required to stick to the same pool member. (Session persistence is not
  currently supported by this tool.)
* pools define 'member healthchecks', and so are aware of the health of their
  member nodes.

A typical load balancer configuration (for one service, mapping 192.0.2.0:80 to
port 8080 on three servers) would look something like:

```
load_balancer_service:

  pools:
  - name: 'example-pool-1'
    description: 'A pool balancing traffic across backend nodes on port 8080'
    service:
      http:
        port: 8080
    members:
    - ip_address: 10.10.10.11
    - ip_address: 10.10.10.12
    - ip_address: 10.10.10.13

  virtual_servers:
  - name: 'example-virtual-server-1'
    description: 'A virtual server connecting to example-pool-1'
    ip_address: 192.0.2.10
    network: '12345678-1234-1234-1234-123456789012' # id of external network
    pool: 'example-pool-1' # must refer to a pool name detailed above
    service_profiles:
      http:  # protocol to balance, can be tcp/http/https.
        port: '80'  # external port
```

The vCloud Director load balancer service is quite basic, but supports the
following:

* Layer 7 balancing of HTTP traffic
* Balancing of HTTPS traffic (though no decryption is possible, so this is
  purely level-4 based)
* Layer 4 balancing of arbitrary TCP traffic.
* URI-based healthchecks of backend nodes
* Several balancing algorithms, such as 'round robin', and 'least connections'
* Ability to persist sessions to the same backend member node, via a variety of
  means (eg HTTP cookie value, SSL session ID, source IP hash).

`vcloud-configure-edge` supports all of the above features.

It is also worth noting that the vCloud Director load balancer *does not
support*:

* In vCD 5.1, TCP and HTTPS layer-4 balancing are based on TCP port forwarding.
  There is no NAT in the mix, so the backend pools see the IP address/port of
  the edge rather than the remote host.
* There is no SSL offloading/decryption possible on the device, so traffic
  inspection of HTTPS is not feasible.

Rather unusually, each virtual server and pool combination can handle traffic
balancing for HTTP, HTTPS, and a single TCP port simultaneously. For example:

```
load_balancer_service:
  pools:
  - name: 'example-multi-protocol-pool-1'
    description: 'A pool balancing HTTP, HTTPS, and SMTP traffic'
    service:
      http: {}
      https: {}
      tcp:
        port: 25
    members:
    - ip_address: 10.10.10.14
    - ip_address: 10.10.10.15
  virtual_servers:
  - name: 'example-multi-protocol-virtual-server-1'
    description: 'A virtual server connecting to example-pool-1'
    ip_address: 192.0.2.11
    network: '12345678-1234-1234-1234-123456789012'
    pool: 'example-multi-protocol-pool-1'
    service_profiles:
      http: {}
      https: {}
      tcp:
        port: 25
```

The above is particularly useful for services that require balancing of HTTP
and HTTPS traffic together.

#### load_balancer_service pool entries in detail

Each pool entry consists of:

* a pool name, and optional description
* a 'service' section - which protocol(s) to balance, and how to balance them.
* a 'members' list - which backend nodes to use.

For example:

```
name: test-pool-1
description: Balances HTTP and HTTPS
service:
  http: {}
  https: {}
members:
- ip_address: 10.10.10.11
- ip_address: 10.10.10.12
  weight: 10
```

Here we have:

* HTTP and HTTPS traffic balanced across 10.10.10.11 and 10.10.10.12.
* member 10.10.10.11 has a default `weight` of 1
* member 10.10.10.12 has a `weight` of 10, so will receive 10x the traffic of
  10.10.10.11
* http and https services are using all defaults, which means:
  * they use standard ports (80 for HTTP, 443 for HTTPS)
  * they will use 'round robin' balancing
  * HTTP service will 'GET /' from each node to check its health
  * HTTPS service will check 'SSL hello' response to confirm its health.

Service entries are the most complex, due to the available options on
a per-service basis. The defaults we provide are suitable for most situations,
but for more infomation see below.

A more complete HTTP service entry looks like:

```
service:
  http:
    port: 8080
    algorithm: 'ROUND_ROBIN'  # can also be 'LEAST_CONNECTED', 'IP_HASH', 'URI'
    health_check:
      port: 8081            # port to check health on, if not service port above.
      uri: /healthcheck     # for HTTP, the URI to check for 200/30* response
      protocol: HTTP        # the protocol to talk to health check service: HTTP, SSL, TCP
      health_threshold:  2  # how many checks to success before reenabling member
      unhealth_threshold: 3 # how many checks to fail before disabling member
      interval: 5           # interval between checks
      timeout: 15           # how long to wait before assuming healthcheck has failed

```

See [the vCloud Director Admin Guide](http://pubs.vmware.com/vcd-51/topic/com.vmware.vcloud.admin.doc_51/GUID-C12B3954-155F-48AF-9855-E0DE026752D0.html)
for more details on configuring Pool entries.

#### load_balancer_service virtual_server entries in detail

Each virtual_server entry must consist of:

* a virtual_server name, and optional description
* a 'service_profiles' section: which protocol(s) to handle
* a `network` reference - the UUID of the network which the ip_address sits on.
* a backend `pool` to use, referenced by name

For example:

```
name: test-virtual_server-1
description: Public facing side of test-pool-1
pool: test-pool-1
ip_address: 192.0.2.55  # front-end IP address, usually external
network: 12345678-1234-1234-1234-1234567890aa # UUID of network containing ip_address
service_profiles:
  http: { port: 8080 } # override default port 80
  https: { }  # port defaults to 443
```

See [the vCloud Director Admin Guide](http://pubs.vmware.com/vcd-51/topic/com.vmware.vcloud.admin.doc_51/GUID-EC5EE5F9-1A2C-4609-9347-4C3143727704.html)
for more details on configuring VirtualServer entries.

### Finding external network details from vcloud-walk

You can find the network UUID and external address allocations using [vCloud
Walker](https://rubygems.org/gems/vcloud-walker):

To do this, do:

```
export FOG_CREDENTIAL={crediental-tag-for-your-organization}
vcloud-walk edgegateways > edges.out
```

`edges.out` will contain the complete configuration of all edge gateways in
your organization. Find the edge gateway you are interested in by searching for
its name, then look for a GatewayInterface section that has an InterfaceType of
'uplink'. This should define:

* a 'href' element in a Network section. The UUID at the end of this href is
  what you need.
* an IpRange section with a StartAddress and EndAddress -- these define the
  addresses that you can use for services on this external network.

You can use [jq](http://stedolan.github.io/jq/) to make this easier:
```
cat edges.out | jq '
  .[] | select(.name == "NAME_OF_YOUR_EDGE_GATEWAY")
      | .Configuration.GatewayInterfaces.GatewayInterface[]
      | select(.InterfaceType == "uplink")
      | ( .Network.href, .SubnetParticipation )
      '
```

### Full configuration examples

You can find full configuration examples in the `examples` folder.


### Debug output

Set environment variable `DEBUG=true` and/or `EXCON_DEBUG=true` to see Fog debug
info.

### References

* [vCloud Director Edge Gateway documentation](http://pubs.vmware.com/vcd-51/topic/com.vmware.vcloud.admin.doc_51/GUID-ADE1DCAB-874F-45A9-9337-1E971DAC0F7D.html)

## Contributing

1. Fork it
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create new Pull Request


[fog]: http://fog.io/

Commit message:

Amending api token section of README
The section of the README that covered using the VCloud API token
was not complete. I've added additional details that should make it
easier to use.

README.md, after:

# vCloud Edge Gateway

vCloud Edge Gateway is a CLI tool and Ruby library that supports automated
provisiong of a VMware vCloud Director Edge Gateway appliance. It depends on
[vCloud Core](https://rubygems.org/gems/vcloud-core) and uses
[Fog](http://fog.io) under the hood.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

    gem 'vcloud-edge_gateway'

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install vcloud-edge_gateway

## Usage

To configure an Edge Gateway:

    $ vcloud-configure-edge input.yaml

### Credentials

vCloud Edge Gateway is based around [fog]. To use it you'll need to give it
credentials that allow it to talk to a VMware
environment. Fog offers two ways to do this.

#### 1. Create a `.fog` file containing your credentials

To use this method, you need a `.fog` file in your home directory.

For example:

    test:
      vcloud_director_username: 'username@org_name'
      vcloud_director_password: 'password'
      vcloud_director_host: 'host.api.example.com'

Unfortunately current usage of fog requires the password in this file. Multiple
sets of credentials can be specified in the fog file, using the following
format:

    test:
      vcloud_director_username: 'username@org_name'
      vcloud_director_password: 'password'
      vcloud_director_host: 'host.api.example.com'

    test2:
      vcloud_director_username: 'username@org_name'
      vcloud_director_password: 'password'
      vcloud_director_host: 'host.api.vendor.net'

You can then pass the `FOG_CREDENTIAL` environment variable at the start of your
command. The value of the `FOG_CREDENTIAL` environment variable is the name of
the credential set in your fog file which you wish to use.  For instance:

    $ FOG_CREDENTIAL=test2 vcloud-configure-edge input.yaml

To understand more about `.fog` files, visit the 'Credentials' section here
=> http://fog.io/about/getting_started.html.

#### 2. Log on externally and supply your session token

You can choose to log on externally by interacting independently with the API
and supplying your session token to the tool by setting the `FOG_VCLOUD_TOKEN`
ENV variable. This option reduces the risk footprint by allowing the user to
store their credentials in safe storage. The default token lifetime is '30
minutes idle' - any activity extends the life by another 30 mins.

First create a .fog file in your home directory af above, but set the password
to a dummy value. The version of fog we currently use requires this key, but we
don't use it.

You then need to log on independently and get a session token. A basic example
of this would be the following:

    curl -D- -d '' \
       -H 'Accept: application/*+xml;version=5.1' -u '<user>@<org>' \
       https://api.vcd.portal.skyscapecloud.com/api/sessions

This will prompt for your password.

From the headers returned, select the header below

     x-vcloud-authorization: AAAABBBBBCCCCCCDDDDDDEEEEEEFFFFF=

Use token as ENV var FOG_VCLOUD_TOKEN

    FOG_VCLOUD_TOKEN=AAAABBBBBCCCCCCDDDDDDEEEEEEFFFFF= bundle exec ...

Or

    export FOG_VCLOUD_TOKEN=AAAABBBBBCCCCCCDDDDDDEEEEEEFFFFF=

You can then export the `FOG_CREDENTIAL` environment variable or set it at the
start of your command.  The value of the `FOG_CREDENTIAL` environment variable
is the name of the credential set in your fog file which you wish to use.  For
instance:

    FOG_CREDENTIAL=test2 bundle exec vcloud-launch node.yaml


### Configure edge gateway services

You can configure the following services on an existing edgegateway using
`vcloud-configure-edge`.

- firewall_service
- nat_service
- load_balancer_service

NB: DHCP and VPN Services are not yet supported by the Fog platform underneath.
Support for these is being considered.

The `vcloud-configure-edge` tool takes an input YAML file describing one
or more of these services and updates the edge gateway configuration to match,
obeying the following rules:

* A given service will not be reconfigured if its input configuration matches
  the live configuration - to prevent unneccessary service reloads.
* If a service is not defined in the input config, it will not be updated on
  the remote edge gateway - to permit per-service configurations.
* If more than one service is defined and have changed, then all changed
  services will be updated in the same API request.

#### firewall_service

The edge gateway firewall service offers basic inbound and outbound
IPv4 firewall rules, applied on top of a default policy.

We default to the global firewall policy being 'drop', and each individual
rule to be 'allow'. Rules are applied in order, with the last match winning.

Each rule has the following form:

```
 - description: "Description of your rule"
   destination_port_range: "53"  # defaults to 'Any'
   destination_ip: "192.0.2.15"
   source_ip: "Any"
   source_port_range: "1024-65535"  # defaults to 'Any'
   protocol: 'udp' # defaults to 'tcp'
   policy: 'allow'  # defaults to 'drop'
```

Rule fields have the following behaviour

* `policy` defaults to 'allow', can also be 'drop'.
* `protocol` defaults to 'tcp'. Can be 'icmp', 'udp', 'tcp+udp' or 'any'
* `source_port_range` and `destination_port_range` can be `Any` (default),
  a single port number (eg '443'), or a port range such as '10000-20000'
* `source_ip` and `destination_ip` *must* be specified.
* `source_ip` and `destination_ip` can be one of:
  * `Any` to match any address.
  * `external`, or `internal` to refer to addresses on the respective 'sides'
   of the edge gateway.
  * A single IP address, such as `192.0.2.44`
  * A CIDR range, eg `192.0.2.0/24`
  * A hyphened range, such as `192.0.2.50-192.0.2.60`



#### nat_service

The edge gateway NAT service offers simple stateful Source-NAT and
Destination-NAT rules.

SNAT rules take a source IP address range and 'Translated IP address'. The
translated address is generally the public address that you wish traffic to
appear to be coming from. SNAT rules are typically used to enable outbound
connectivity from a private address range behind the edge. The UUID of the
external network that the traffic should appear to come from must also be
specified, as per the `network_id` field below.

A SNAT rule has the following form:

```
 - rule_type: 'SNAT'
   network_id: '12345678-1234-1234-1234-1234567890bb' # id of EdgeGateway external network
   original_ip: "10.10.10.0/24"  # internal IP range
   translated_ip: "192.0.2.100
```

* `original_ip` can be a single IP address, a CIDR range, or a hyphenated
  IP range.
* `network_id` must be the UUID of the network on which the `translated_ip` sits.
  Instructions are in the [finding external network
  details](#finding-external-network-details-from-vcloud-walk) section below.
* `translated_ip` must be an available address on the network specified by
   `network_id`


DNAT rules translate packets addressed to a particular destination IP (and
typically port) and translate it to an internal address - they are usually
defined to allow external hosts to connect to services on hosts with private IP
addresses.

A DNAT rule has the following form, and translates packets going to the
`original_ip` (and `original_port`) to the `translated_ip` and
`translated_port` values.

```
- rule_type: 'DNAT'
  network_id: '12345678-1234-1234-1234-1234567890bb' # id of EdgeGateway external network
  original_ip: "192.0.2.98" # Useable address on external network
  original_port: "22"       # external port
  translated_ip: "10.10.10.10"  # internal address to DNAT to
  translated_port: "22"
```

* `network_id` specifies the UUID of the external network that packets are
  translated from.
* `original_ip` is an IP address on the external network above.

#### load_balancer_service

The load balancer service comprises two sets of configurations: 'pools' and
'virtual_servers'. These are coupled together to form load balanced services:

* A virtual_server provides the front-end of a load balancer - the port and
  IP that clients connect to.
* A pool is a collection of one or more back-end nodes (IP+port combination)
  that traffic is balanced across.
* Each virtual_server entry specifies a pool that serves requests destined to
  it.
* Multiple virtual_servers can specify the same pool (to run the same service
  on different FQDNs, for example)
* virtual_servers define any 'session persistence' information, if sessions
  are required to stick to the same pool member. (Session persistence is not
  currently supported by this tool.)
* pools define 'member healthchecks', and so are aware of the health of their
  member nodes.

A typical load balancer configuration (for one service, mapping 192.0.2.0:80 to
port 8080 on three servers) would look something like:

```
load_balancer_service:

  pools:
  - name: 'example-pool-1'
    description: 'A pool balancing traffic across backend nodes on port 8080'
    service:
      http:
        port: 8080
    members:
    - ip_address: 10.10.10.11
    - ip_address: 10.10.10.12
    - ip_address: 10.10.10.13

  virtual_servers:
  - name: 'example-virtual-server-1'
    description: 'A virtual server connecting to example-pool-1'
    ip_address: 192.0.2.10
    network: '12345678-1234-1234-1234-123456789012' # id of external network
    pool: 'example-pool-1' # must refer to a pool name detailed above
    service_profiles:
      http:  # protocol to balance, can be tcp/http/https.
        port: '80'  # external port
```

The vCloud Director load balancer service is quite basic, but supports the
following:

* Layer 7 balancing of HTTP traffic
* Balancing of HTTPS traffic (though no decryption is possible, so this is
  purely level-4 based)
* Layer 4 balancing of arbitrary TCP traffic.
* URI-based healthchecks of backend nodes
* Several balancing algorithms, such as 'round robin', and 'least connections'
* Ability to persist sessions to the same backend member node, via a variety of
  means (eg HTTP cookie value, SSL session ID, source IP hash).

`vcloud-configure-edge` supports all of the above features.

It is also worth noting that the vCloud Director load balancer *does not
support*:

* In vCD 5.1, TCP and HTTPS layer-4 balancing are based on TCP port forwarding.
  There is no NAT in the mix, so the backend pools see the IP address/port of
  the edge rather than the remote host.
* There is no SSL offloading/decryption possible on the device, so traffic
  inspection of HTTPS is not feasible.

Rather unusually, each virtual server and pool combination can handle traffic
balancing for HTTP, HTTPS, and a single TCP port simultaneously. For example:

```
load_balancer_service:
  pools:
  - name: 'example-multi-protocol-pool-1'
    description: 'A pool balancing HTTP, HTTPS, and SMTP traffic'
    service:
      http: {}
      https: {}
      tcp:
        port: 25
    members:
    - ip_address: 10.10.10.14
    - ip_address: 10.10.10.15
  virtual_servers:
  - name: 'example-multi-protocol-virtual-server-1'
    description: 'A virtual server connecting to example-pool-1'
    ip_address: 192.0.2.11
    network: '12345678-1234-1234-1234-123456789012'
    pool: 'example-multi-protocol-pool-1'
    service_profiles:
      http: {}
      https: {}
      tcp:
        port: 25
```

The above is particularly useful for services that require balancing of HTTP
and HTTPS traffic together.

#### load_balancer_service pool entries in detail

Each pool entry consists of:

* a pool name, and optional description
* a 'service' section - which protocol(s) to balance, and how to balance them.
* a 'members' list - which backend nodes to use.

For example:

```
name: test-pool-1
description: Balances HTTP and HTTPS
service:
  http: {}
  https: {}
members:
- ip_address: 10.10.10.11
- ip_address: 10.10.10.12
  weight: 10
```

Here we have:

* HTTP and HTTPS traffic balanced across 10.10.10.11 and 10.10.10.12.
* member 10.10.10.11 has a default `weight` of 1
* member 10.10.10.12 has a `weight` of 10, so will receive 10x the traffic of
  10.10.10.11
* http and https services are using all defaults, which means:
  * they use standard ports (80 for HTTP, 443 for HTTPS)
  * they will use 'round robin' balancing
  * HTTP service will 'GET /' from each node to check its health
  * HTTPS service will check 'SSL hello' response to confirm its health.

Service entries are the most complex, due to the available options on
a per-service basis. The defaults we provide are suitable for most situations,
but for more infomation see below.

A more complete HTTP service entry looks like:

```
service:
  http:
    port: 8080
    algorithm: 'ROUND_ROBIN'  # can also be 'LEAST_CONNECTED', 'IP_HASH', 'URI'
    health_check:
      port: 8081            # port to check health on, if not service port above.
      uri: /healthcheck     # for HTTP, the URI to check for 200/30* response
      protocol: HTTP        # the protocol to talk to health check service: HTTP, SSL, TCP
      health_threshold:  2  # how many checks to success before reenabling member
      unhealth_threshold: 3 # how many checks to fail before disabling member
      interval: 5           # interval between checks
      timeout: 15           # how long to wait before assuming healthcheck has failed

```

See [the vCloud Director Admin Guide](http://pubs.vmware.com/vcd-51/topic/com.vmware.vcloud.admin.doc_51/GUID-C12B3954-155F-48AF-9855-E0DE026752D0.html)
for more details on configuring Pool entries.

#### load_balancer_service virtual_server entries in detail

Each virtual_server entry must consist of:

* a virtual_server name, and optional description
* a 'service_profiles' section: which protocol(s) to handle
* a `network` reference - the UUID of the network which the ip_address sits on.
* a backend `pool` to use, referenced by name

For example:

```
name: test-virtual_server-1
description: Public facing side of test-pool-1
pool: test-pool-1
ip_address: 192.0.2.55  # front-end IP address, usually external
network: 12345678-1234-1234-1234-1234567890aa # UUID of network containing ip_address
service_profiles:
  http: { port: 8080 } # override default port 80
  https: { }  # port defaults to 443
```

See [the vCloud Director Admin Guide](http://pubs.vmware.com/vcd-51/topic/com.vmware.vcloud.admin.doc_51/GUID-EC5EE5F9-1A2C-4609-9347-4C3143727704.html)
for more details on configuring VirtualServer entries.

### Finding external network details from vcloud-walk

You can find the network UUID and external address allocations using [vCloud
Walker](https://rubygems.org/gems/vcloud-walker):

To do this, do:

```
export FOG_CREDENTIAL={crediental-tag-for-your-organization}
vcloud-walk edgegateways > edges.out
```

`edges.out` will contain the complete configuration of all edge gateways in
your organization. Find the edge gateway you are interested in by searching for
its name, then look for a GatewayInterface section that has an InterfaceType of
'uplink'. This should define:

* a 'href' element in a Network section. The UUID at the end of this href is
  what you need.
* an IpRange section with a StartAddress and EndAddress -- these define the
  addresses that you can use for services on this external network.

You can use [jq](http://stedolan.github.io/jq/) to make this easier:
```
cat edges.out | jq '
  .[] | select(.name == "NAME_OF_YOUR_EDGE_GATEWAY")
      | .Configuration.GatewayInterfaces.GatewayInterface[]
      | select(.InterfaceType == "uplink")
      | ( .Network.href, .SubnetParticipation )
      '
```

### Full configuration examples

You can find full configuration examples in the `examples` folder.


### Debug output

Set environment variable `DEBUG=true` and/or `EXCON_DEBUG=true` to see Fog debug
info.

### References

* [vCloud Director Edge Gateway documentation](http://pubs.vmware.com/vcd-51/topic/com.vmware.vcloud.admin.doc_51/GUID-ADE1DCAB-874F-45A9-9337-1E971DAC0F7D.html)

## Contributing

1. Fork it
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create new Pull Request


[fog]: http://fog.io/
